We've been deployed to the North
Peace Complex and we're working
out of Fort Nelson. Hi,
my name is Hugh Murdoch and I'm
an incident commander on one of
the provinces incident
management teams. There's a
tremendous amount of fire
burning up in this region right
now. There's roughly 250,
000 hectares burning just within
our complex. The Parker Lake
fire is the one fire that's
garnering the most attention at
this time. That's about 12,
000 hectares in size. That the
fire just to the north of that
as well, the Petrie Creek fire,
much bigger, it's about 65,
1000 hectares. Between those two
fires,
we've got 130 firefighters. I've
made-up of various crews,
there's contract crews,
initial attack unit crews,
we've got local equipment
operators. So there's about 11
pieces of heavy equipment,
19 helicopters supporting the
efforts. And you know,
not surprisingly,
the efforts are focused on that
part of the fire that that's
closest to the town of Fort
Nelson. But there's efforts
going on around the perimeter of
both those fires with a longer
term vision of of getting full
suppression on these fires. The
summer
is going to be a long one. I
think it's had an early start
again. And there seems to be
just so much fire on the
landscape so early. And it's not
just lightning that's going to
give us our starts,
but these holdover fires from
previous year. Another source
that's giving us a lot of
challenges. My name is Erica
Fetzima,
fire behavior analyst here at
the North Peace Complex. Over
the next couple of days,
we're expecting some highly
variable fire,
fire conditions. So we're going
to have some places that will
get rain,
others will stay dry. In the
areas that stay dry,
we're expecting to see
some some trees beginning to
candle,
some fairly vigorous surface
fire,
showing that the fire still has
lots of potential with the rain.
We're going to see many areas
with very subdued fire behaviour
and as our trees start to green
up and grassroots to green up,
that's aiding the fire and sort
of slowing down. However,
we're still in very severe
drought in this area and it's
causing really significant
challenges to our firefighters.
You can see behind me that
what's happening is having lots
of trees come down because of
the drought.
So the fire is burning the roots
out,
trees are falling down and this
is making it very difficult and
time consuming for our crews to
mop up. So the fire is getting
under these trees. We have to
clear them to put the fire out
and it's taking a lot of time
and effort.
My name is Brett Soderholm and I
am a fire weather forecaster for
the Prince George Fire Centre.
Today I'm actually on site at
the North Peace Complex and the
weather of course up here in the
north is extremely variable from
one day to the next. This
morning, for example,
serving off, very cool and humid,
but now just a couple of hours
later,
the sun has come out. It's
really quite hot and quite dry.
The concern for these next
couple of days is going to be
for the chance of thunderstorms
developing in the area. There's
a lot of instability in the
atmosphere and the concern from
a wildfire perspective is that
these thunderstorms may generate
some lightning in addition to
some gusty winds. Since early
April,
we've been dealing with
anomalously dry conditions
across parts of the northeast,
and these conditions are still
expected to continue over these
next couple of days. In addition
to that,
we'd be looking for an increase
in winds,
especially toward mid next week.
There's a chance here that we
might get some gusty
northwesterly winds coming down
from the territories.
Yeah,
we all appreciate that the folks
from Fort Nelson have been away
from their homes for some period
of time and that's not a
situation that anyone wants to
be in. We're eager to have them
back. It's nice to have their
support. We've had it from a
distance and it'll be great to
to be more in their company and
be able to interact more
throughout the community with
them as well. It's it's been
good working with some of the
local ground crews and equipment
operators. But yeah,
it'll be nice just to see the
residents as well.